# Case 1

First let's have a look at Gold:

![](case_1.png)

There's more after this, but I'm showing you the exciting bit. Focus
on the 'total volume' and 'open interest - at close' columns*. Gold is
an example of a contract with monthly deliveries, but where only
selected rolls are liquid. We see a fairly typical pattern of
liquidity declining over time, but for about a year there's enough of
the stuff for most people.

* I'm using these as a proxy for liquidity. I could also look at the inside size and depth of the order book; however these won't show what was actually executed - there can be a big difference in the two measures because of spoofing. 

So unless you are a massive hedge fund for which only June is liquid
enough you'll probably be able to trade the June, August, October or
December 2015 contracts.

Contracts with a similar pattern (reasonably decent for 3 or 4
selected deliveries, or a year or so, with gradually declining
liquidity) include other metals like platinum.

With liquidity declining monotonically every month, but again
reasonably good for the next four deliveries and sometimes longer,
there are the VIX and V2X equity volatility futures; and US (Henry
Hub) natural Gas.

#Case 2

Here's another contract with plenty of possibilities, Eurodollar.

![](case_2.png)

To avoid terminal boredom I won't keep going, but suffice to say there
are 10K lots a day of volume available until March 2020. Again unless
you're a massive hedge fund that is an awful lot of contracts to
choose from.

Most short term interest rate futures, including LIBOR and EURIBOR,
have these long tails of liquidity into the future, although none is
quite as good as Eurodollar.

![](case_2_2.png)

#Case 3

A lot of commodity (agricultural, energy) contracts are strongly
influenced by the season of their delivery month. This also has an
impact on their liquidity patterns. Here is crude oil:

![](case_3.png)

The pattern of good, but gradually declining, liquidity in a summer
(June) and winter (December) contracts continues after this, with
December showing particular strength as only December crude is quoted
after 2019.

You'll see a similar seasonal pattern across many commodities,
although the favored 'month' will vary, and few will have such long
dated delivery months as crude. US Gas is an exception, as I've
already noted.

#Case 4

Let's move on to our final example: US 10 year treasury futures please
step forward.

![](case_4.png)

No I haven't missed anything out - that's your lot. All the liquidity
is in the front month. This thing rolls quarterly on IMM months, and a
few people have begun to move into September, but basically June 2015
is the only game in town.

[Investment Idiocy Blog](http://qoppac.blogspot.de/2015/05/systems-building-futures-rolling.html)

